{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs24
\b FumiSync Hybrid Wallet + Card Billing Flow Spec\par
\b0
\par
\b Purpose\par
\b0
This document explains the hybrid billing and wallet system we are building into FumiSync so frontend and backend can stay aligned. The model is hybrid: users can pay with Stripe card checkout or with a ToroForge wallet. DSOs can fund a parent wallet, clinics can have their own wallet, and premium usage can be deducted from wallet balance while core subscription billing can be paid by either card or wallet.\par
\par
\b Core Product Direction\par
\b0
We are not building patient wallets. We are building platform wallets for DSOs and clinics to pay for FumiSync itself. That includes base subscription charges, premium usage, and overage charges. The wallet is a business treasury and operations budget tool, not a patient payment product.\par
\par
\b Main Actors\par
\b0
1. DSO admin: owns the DSO treasury wallet, funds it, and allocates value to clinic wallets.\par
2. Clinic admin inside a DSO: views clinic wallet balance and usage, but the DSO may control funding.\par
3. Standalone clinic admin: owns the clinic wallet directly and funds it directly.\par
4. FumiSync platform: receives subscription and usage payments into the platform receiving wallet and records all billing events in the app ledger.\par
\par
\b Payment Rails\par
\b0
We support two payment methods:\par
1. Stripe card checkout: simple and familiar for subscription and wallet top-up.\par
2. ToroForge wallet: treasury-style balance that can be funded, allocated, and used to pay base subscription, premium features, and overages.\par
\par
\b Wallet Model\par
\b0
1. DSO wallet: parent treasury wallet for a DSO.\par
2. Clinic wallet under DSO: child wallet tied to a clinic and optionally funded by the DSO wallet.\par
3. Standalone clinic wallet: directly owned wallet for a clinic that is not inside a DSO.\par
4. FumiSync receiving wallet: platform-side wallet that receives wallet-based payments from customers.\par
\par
\b Billing Model\par
\b0
1. Base subscription covers core sync, dashboards, clinic health, RBAC, audit logs, and standard logs.\par
2. Premium or variable usage covers messaging, eligibility, advanced ticket automation, and sync overage after included threshold.\par
3. Base subscription can be paid with card or wallet.\par
4. Premium usage and overages can be deducted from wallet balance. Card fallback can be added later if desired.\par
\par
\b High-Level Business Rules\par
\b0
1. Every DSO can have one treasury wallet.\par
2. Every clinic can have one clinic wallet.\parmnmnq
3. When a DSO creates a clinic, the system should also create a clinic wallet record for that clinic.\par
4. DSO admins can transfer funds from the DSO wallet to a clinic wallet.\par
5. Standalone clinics fund their own wallet directly.\par
6. If wallet balance is sufficient, wallet can pay subscription or usage charges.\par
7. If wallet balance is insufficient, frontend should offer card payment or top-up flow.\par
8. All deductions, transfers, top-ups, and refunds must be recorded in a ledger.\par
\par
\b Flow 1: DSO Signup and DSO Wallet Creation\par
\b0
1. User signs up or logs in to FumiSync.\par
2. User creates a DSO account.\par
3. Backend creates the DSO record.\par
4. Backend creates the DSO admin role assignment.\par
5. Backend calls ToroForge to create a DSO wallet.\par
6. Backend stores wallet reference in the database.\par
7. Frontend shows wallet status as one of: pending, active, failed.\par
8. If creation fails, DSO still exists but wallet state should show not ready and allow retry.\par
\par
\b Flow 2: DSO Funds Treasury Wallet\par
\b0
1. DSO admin opens Billing or Wallet page.\par
2. Frontend shows current DSO wallet balance, recent transactions, and available payment methods.\par
3. DSO admin selects Fund Wallet.\par
4. User chooses funding method: Stripe card or ToroForge funding flow.\par
5. Backend creates top-up intent.\par
6. On successful payment, backend records wallet top-up event and updates displayed balance.\par
7. Frontend refreshes wallet summary and ledger.\par
\par
\b Flow 3: DSO Creates a Clinic and Clinic Wallet is Also Created\par
\b0
1. DSO admin creates a clinic in the platform.\par
2. Backend creates the clinic record.\par
3. Backend creates the clinic admin role assignment for the creator or intended owner.\par
4. Backend creates a wallet record for that clinic.\par
5. If ToroForge wallet creation succeeds, clinic wallet becomes active.\par
6. If ToroForge wallet creation fails, clinic exists but wallet state is pending or failed and retry is allowed.\par
7. Frontend should clearly show clinic created plus wallet status.\par
\par
\b Flow 4: DSO Funds a Clinic Wallet\par
\b0
1. DSO admin opens DSO wallet page or clinic billing page.\par
2. DSO admin selects a clinic and chooses Allocate Funds.\par
3. Frontend submits transfer request.\par
4. Backend validates that clinic belongs to that DSO.\par
5. Backend validates DSO wallet has enough balance.\par
6. Backend performs wallet transfer using ToroForge.\par
7. Backend records two ledger entries: DSO debit and clinic credit.\par
8. Frontend refreshes both balances.\par
\par
\b Flow 5: Standalone Clinic Signup and Wallet Creation\par
\b0
1. User signs up or logs in.\par
2. User creates a standalone clinic.\par
3. Backend creates clinic record and clinic admin role assignment.\par
4. Backend creates clinic wallet.\par
5. Frontend shows clinic wallet status.\par
6. Clinic admin can then fund the wallet directly using card or ToroForge funding flow.\par
\par
\b Flow 6: Base Subscription Payment\par
\b0
Base subscription can be paid in two ways.\par
\par
Wallet path:\par
1. Billing date arrives or subscription activation is requested.\par
2. Backend checks wallet balance.\par
3. If sufficient, backend deducts subscription amount from customer wallet and records ledger entry.\par
4. Backend records FumiSync receiving-wallet credit event.\par
5. Frontend shows subscription status as paid.\par
\par
Card path:\par
1. User selects Pay by Card.\par
2. Backend creates Stripe checkout or payment intent.\par
3. Stripe confirms payment.\par
4. Backend marks subscription paid and records ledger entry.\par
5. Frontend shows subscription status as paid.\par
\par
\b Flow 7: Premium Usage and Overage Billing\par
\b0
Examples of premium usage:\par
1. Messaging sends.\par
2. Eligibility checks.\par
3. Advanced ticket automation.\par
4. Sync overage after included threshold is exceeded.\par
\par
Usage flow:\par
1. Premium action is requested or completed.\par
2. Backend evaluates billing rule for that action.\par
3. If action is billable, backend deducts wallet amount or records metered usage.\par
4. If the action fails and policy requires refund, backend records refund entry.\par
5. Frontend shows updated balance and recent usage.\par
\par
\b Sync Overage Rule\par
\b0
Base subscription includes a threshold of sync usage.\par
Once that threshold is exceeded, additional sync usage is billed from wallet. We should not charge awkward forced blocks if we are using a metered model. If we choose pack-based usage later, unused funded wallet balance should remain available for future use.\par
\par
\b Flow 8: Low Balance and Payment Failure\par
\b0
If wallet balance is low or insufficient:\par
1. Frontend shows low-balance warning.\par
2. Frontend offers Fund Wallet or Pay by Card.\par
3. Premium action can either be blocked, queued, or downgraded depending on product policy.\par
4. Subscription payment failure should move subscription into past_due or payment_required state.\par
5. Admin should see reason and recommended action.\par
\par
\b Flow 9: Refunds and Adjustments\par
\b0
Refunds are needed for:\par
1. failed premium action that was already charged,\par
2. manual billing correction,\par
3. overcharge reversal,\par
4. top-up reversal if payment provider confirms failure.\par
\par
Refund flow:\par
1. Backend creates a compensating ledger entry.\par
2. Wallet balance is restored if refund is wallet-based.\par
3. Frontend shows refund in transaction list and updated balance.\par
\par
\b Frontend Screens We Need\par
\b0
1. DSO Billing Overview page.\par
2. DSO Treasury Wallet page.\par
3. Clinic Wallet page.\par
4. Fund Wallet modal.\par
5. Allocate Funds modal for DSO to clinic transfer.\par
6. Subscription status card.\par
7. Premium usage summary card.\par
8. Transaction ledger table.\par
9. Low balance banner.\par
10. Payment method selector: Card or Wallet.\par
\par
\b Frontend Data the UI Should Show\par
\b0
1. wallet_status: pending, active, failed, disabled.\par
2. available_balance.\par
3. total_funded.\par
4. total_spent.\par
5. subscription_status: active, past_due, unpaid, trialing.\par
6. included_sync_threshold.\par
7. current_sync_usage.\par
8. premium_usage_summary by feature.\par
9. last top-up amount and date.\par
10. recent ledger entries.\par
\par
\b Suggested API Surface for Frontend\par
\b0
1. GET /dsos/{dso_id}/billing\par
2. GET /clinics/{clinic_id}/billing\par
3. POST /dsos/{dso_id}/wallets/fund\par
4. POST /clinics/{clinic_id}/wallets/fund\par
5. POST /dsos/{dso_id}/wallets/transfer-to-clinic\par
6. GET /dsos/{dso_id}/wallets/ledger\par
7. GET /clinics/{clinic_id}/wallets/ledger\par
8. POST /dsos/{dso_id}/subscriptions/pay\par
9. POST /clinics/{clinic_id}/subscriptions/pay\par
10. GET /dsos/{dso_id}/usage-summary\par
11. GET /clinics/{clinic_id}/usage-summary\par
\par
\b Frontend State Rules\par
\b0
1. If wallet is pending, show setup state and disable payment actions that require a live wallet.\par
2. If wallet is failed, show retry wallet setup action.\par
3. If subscription is unpaid, show clear CTA to pay by wallet or card.\par
4. If balance is low, show warning before premium features fail.\par
5. If a DSO is selected as active workspace, show DSO wallet and allocation controls.\par
6. If a clinic is selected as active workspace, show only that clinic wallet and usage.\par
\par
\b Backend Responsibilities\par
\b0
1. Create wallet records on DSO creation and clinic creation.\par
2. Call ToroForge to create external wallet resources.\par
3. Track wallet status and external wallet identifiers.\par
4. Track base subscription status.\par
5. Track premium usage and sync overage.\par
6. Record every movement in a ledger.\par
7. Invalidate cached billing views when wallet state changes.\par
8. Ensure DSO cannot fund a clinic outside its own scope.\par
\par
\b Frontend Responsibilities\par
\b0
1. Render wallet and billing state clearly.\par
2. Support both payment options: card and wallet.\par
3. Show funding, allocation, and payment actions only to allowed roles.\par
4. Keep DSO and clinic experiences scoped correctly.\par
5. Refresh wallet and ledger views after mutations.\par
6. Handle pending, failed, and insufficient balance states cleanly.\par
\par
\b MVP Scope\par
\b0
For MVP, we should build:\par
1. DSO wallet creation.\par
2. Standalone clinic wallet creation.\par
3. Clinic wallet creation during DSO clinic creation.\par
4. Wallet funding flow.\par
5. DSO to clinic wallet allocation.\par
6. Base subscription payment by card or wallet.\par
7. Premium usage deduction from wallet.\par
8. Billing overview pages for DSO and clinic.\par
9. Ledger table.\par
\par
\b Not in MVP\par
\b0
1. patient wallets,\par
2. crypto speculation flows,\par
3. loyalty tokens,\par
4. complex marketplace settlement,\par
5. automated budget rules,\par
6. multi-provider fallback settlement.\par
\par
\b Final Product Positioning\par
\b0
The point of this system is not just to let clinics pay us. The point is to give DSOs and clinics a flexible billing and operations treasury where they can fund their account, allocate budget, pay core subscription, and cover premium automation and overage spend without losing visibility or control.\par
\par
\b One-Line Summary for Frontend\par
\b0
We are building a hybrid billing system where a DSO or clinic can pay FumiSync with Stripe or ToroForge wallet, maintain wallet balances, fund clinics, and use those balances for subscriptions, premium features, and overages with full ledger visibility.\par
}
